Add Roon media_player integration (#14131)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/roon.markdown

---
title: RoonLabs Media Player
description: Instructions on how to integrate a RoonLabs multi room player into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player

> ha_release: 0.114

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 0.115
```

ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@pavoni'
ha_domain: roon
---

The Roon integration allows you to control [RoonLabs](https://roonlabs.com/) music players from Home Assistant.

This integration uses Roon Core, a Roon application that runs on a machine on your network. Via Roon Core, Home Assistant can control all the Roon music players on your network.

To integrate with Roon, you need to provide Home Assistant with the Hostname or IP address of the machine that runs your Roon Core, and then authorize Home Assistant in the Roon application.

If you use an IP address please assign a static IP address to the machine that runs Roon Core. This ensures that it won't change IP addresses, so you won't have to change the configuration in Home Assistant if it reboots and changes IP address. See your router's manual for details on how to set this up.

</div>

### Configuration

You need the Hostname or IP adresss of the machine that runs your Roon Core. This might be a machine name (which can be followed buy .local, eg myserver.local) or can be an IP address.

> 1. From the Home Assistant front-end, navigate to 'Configuration' then 'Integrations'. Under 'Set up a new integration' locate 'Roon' and click 'Configure'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Home Assistant front-end, navigate to **Configuration** then **Integrations**. Under **Set up a new integration** locate 'Roon' and click **Configure**.
```

> 2. Enter the Hostname or IP address for the Roon Core machine and click 'Submit'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the `Hostname` or `IP address` for the Roon Core machine and click **Submit**.
```

> 3. Home Assistant will then contact your Roon Core and ask to be authorized. You will need to enable this extension in the Room Application. Go to 'Settings' and then 'Extensions', there you will see an entry for Home Assistant with a button next to it. Click 'Enable'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Home Assistant will then contact your Roon Core and ask to be authorized. You will need to enable this extension in the Room Application. Go to **Settings** and then **Extensions**, there you will see an entry for Home Assistant with a button next to it. Click **Enable**.
```

ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_release: 0.114
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@pavoni'
ha_domain: roon
---

The Roon integration allows you to control [RoonLabs](https://roonlabs.com/) music players from Home Assistant.

This integration uses Roon Core, a Roon application that runs on a machine on your network. Via Roon Core, Home Assistant can control all the Roon music players on your network.

To integrate with Roon, you need to provide Home Assistant with the Hostname or IP address of the machine that runs your Roon Core, and then authorize Home Assistant in the Roon application.

<div class='note'>

If you use an IP address please assign a static IP address to the machine that runs Roon Core. This ensures that it won't change IP addresses, so you won't have to change the configuration in Home Assistant if it reboots and changes IP address. See your router's manual for details on how to set this up.

</div>

### Configuration

<div class='note'>

  You need the Hostname or IP adresss of the machine that runs your Roon Core. This might be a machine name (which can be followed buy .local, eg myserver.local) or can be an IP address.

> </div>

Reviewer 2: Do we really need 2 note blocks? I think this can just be part of the normal text.
